Create release-3.38.md (#5199)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2022/release-3.38.md

    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/notebooks/notebook-embedding
    category: Notebooks
  - description: LSIF upload pages now include a section listing the reasons and related retention policies resulting in an upload being retained and not expired.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/30864
    category: Code Intelligence
  - description: 'Code monitoring now has a Logs tab enabled as a beta feature. This lets you see recent runs of your code monitors and determine if any notifications were sent or if there were any errors during the run.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/32292
    category: Admin
  - description: 'Searching for the pattern `//` with regular expression search is now interpreted literally and will search for `//`. Previously, the `//` pattern was interpreted as our regular expression syntax `/<regexp>/` which would in turn be interpreted as the empty string. Since searching for an empty string is not very useful, we now instead interpret `//` as searching for its literal meaning in regular expression search.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/31520
    category: Search
---

> Sourcegraph 3.38 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sourcegraph 3.38 is now available! In this release:
```

## Improved Code Intelligence performance for large repositories

We're introducing a new backend service, Rockskip, for search-based Code Intelligence, the symbol sidebar, and symbol search. Rockskip was architected with monorepos in mind, and it can index new commits much faster than the existing SQLite backend.

From 3.38 onwards, Rockskip can be turned on for specific repositories and it will make the symbol sidebar and search-based Code Intelligence much faster. If you're interested in turning this on for your repositories, read more in the [Rockslip docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/rockskip) or [contact us](mailto:support@sourcegraph.com).

## Search your project dependencies for better incident resolution

[Dependencies search](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/dependencies_search) is a new beta feature that lets you search through the dependency packages of your repositories. Looking into the code of your dependencies is particularly useful when you're trying to resolve incidents as fast as possible.

Dependencies search currently supports NPM, and more dependency repositories are coming soon.

> ## Configure custom language highlighting for file & extensions

Author: ```suggestion
## Configure custom language highlighting for files & extensions
```

> In the past, it was not possible to configure what language a file was highlighted as without sending a Pull Request to Sourcegraph to update our global configuration for language detection. Now, if you have specific extensions or files that you want highlighted as a particular language, you can easily configure that in the site settings. This allows you to get accurate highlighting for custom languages, for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the past, it was not possible to configure what language a file was highlighted as without sending a pull request to Sourcegraph to update our global configuration for language detection. Now, if you have specific extensions or files that you want highlighted as a particular language, you can easily configure that in the site settings. This allows you to get accurate highlighting for custom languages, for example.
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/32094
    category: Code Insights
  - description: 'Notebooks from private enterprise instances can now be embedded in external sites by enabling the `enable-embed-route` feature flag. This allows you to embed Notebooks within existing technical documentation to see your documentation and code side-by-side.'
    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/notebooks/notebook-embedding
    category: Notebooks
  - description: LSIF upload pages now include a section listing the reasons and related retention policies resulting in an upload being retained and not expired.
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/30864
    category: Code Intelligence
  - description: 'Code monitoring now has a Logs tab enabled as a [Beta feature](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/beta_and_experimental_features). This lets you see recent runs of your code monitors and determine if any notifications were sent or if there were any errors during the run.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/32292

>     category: Admin

Reviewer: This isn't rendering correctly, the description is blank when I preview the page
<img width="896" alt="Screenshot 2022-03-21 at 16 13 55" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/82806852/159303793-421ac326-dc46-4f7c-a8eb-ba626beac8f9.png">

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: 'Code monitoring now has a Logs tab enabled as a Beta feature. This lets you see recent runs of your code monitors and determine if any notifications were sent or if there were any errors during the run.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/32292
    category: Admin
```

Author: Perhaps it doesn't like the second link — trying to fix.

  - description: 'Searching for the pattern `//` with regular expression search is now interpreted literally and will search for `//`. Previously, the `//` pattern was interpreted as our regular expression syntax `/<regexp>/` which would in turn be intrpreted as the empty string. Since searching for an empty string offers little practical utility, we now instead interpret `//` to search for its literal meaning in regular expression search.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/31520
    category: Search
---

> Sourcegraph 3.38 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

Reviewer: This isn't blocking feedback but something to consider for next time or whenever we have lots to share in a release post: consider having an intro paragraph that briefly summarizes all the release highlights. Otherwise there's a long way to scroll to see Dependencies search, for example. We might catch people with something they're interested in if we surface it earlier in the post 😃

## Code Insights is generally available

> [Code Insights](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights) transforms any search query into customizable, visual dashboards in seconds. Code Insights surfaces high-level information about your codebase, based on both how your code changes over time and its current state. You can learn more about why we built Code Insights in [the announcement from our CEO](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/announcing-code-insights/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Code Insights](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights) transforms any search query into customizable, visual dashboards in seconds. This feature surfaces high-level information about your codebase, based on both how your code changes over time and its current state. You can learn more about why we built Code Insights in [the announcement from our CEO](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/announcing-code-insights/).
```
Trying to avoid repetition

    frameborder="0"
    title="Sourcegraph Code Insights demo"
  ></iframe>
</div>

## Notebooks are improved with a host of new features

Notebooks have several new features in 3.38 to help your team better understand your codebase:

- You can now copy any existing Notebook to your own collection of Notebooks.
- We've created a new symbol block type. This block lets you find any symbol in a repository, and the block will display that symbol no matter where it moves within a file.
- Code Intelligence is now available in Notebook blocks, making Notebooks more intuitive to be used for onboarding and learning about your codebase.
- Embedding Notebooks is here! You can now easily embed Notebooks from any Sourcegraph instance by embedding an iFrame anywhere, and setting `src` to `https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks/embed/<notebook_uuid/>`.

## Improved Code Intelligence performance for large repositories

We're introducing a new backend service, Rockskip, for search-based Code Intelligence, the symbol sidebar, and symbol search. Rockskip was architected with monorepos in mind, and it can index new commits much faster than the existing SQLite backend.

> From 3.38 onwards, Rockskip can be turned on for specific repositories and it will make the symbol sidebar and search-based Code Intelligence much faster. If you're interested in turning this on for your repositories, read more in the [docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/rockskip) or [contact us](mailto:support@sourcegraph.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From 3.38 onwards, Rockskip can be turned on for specific repositories and it will make the symbol sidebar and search-based Code Intelligence much faster. If you're interested in turning this on for your repositories, read more in the [Rockslip docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/rockskip) or [contact us](mailto:support@sourcegraph.com).
```
Making link text more meaningful for people using screen readers

> <img class="blog-image" title="Rockskip performance improvement" alt="Comparative chart showing impact of incremental indexing" src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code-intelligence/rockskip-chart.png">

Reviewer: Also not blocking, but ideally where we have charts/graphics in a post we should have these done according to our brand guidelines (i.e. in our colour palette and with our brand typefaces). We can request help from our design agency via Fabiana if it can't be done in house 😃

Author: Thanks @rebeccadee! In this case I'm a bit mixed on the visual as-is, since it doesn't show anything in the product and feels a bit out of place. For now, I am going to remove this one. Will definitely use brand guidelines for any type of charting / custom images going forward!

---
title: 'Sourcegraph 3.38 release'
publishDate: 2022-03-21T10:00-07:00

> description: 'Sourcegraph 3.38 introduces improved Notebooks, faster Code Intelligence for large repos, dependencies search, and custom file syntax highlighting.'

Reviewer 2: I think this is better, but not 100% sure

```suggestion
description: 'Sourcegraph 3.38 introduces improved Notebooks, faster Code Intelligence for large repos, dependency search, and custom file syntax highlighting.'
```

tags: [blog, release]
slug: 'release/3.38'
published: true
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.38/sourcegraph-3-38-release.png
socialImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/3.38/sourcegraph-3-38-release.png
changelogItems:

>   - description: Code Insights will now periodically clean up data series that are not in use. There is a 1 hour grace period where the series can be reattached to a view, after which all of the time series data and metadata will be deleted.

Reviewer 2: @Joelkw this is missing what the benefit/impact is. It describes only what happens.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - description: Code Insights will now periodically clean up data series that are not in use. There is a 1 hour grace period where the series can be reattached to a view, after which all of the time series data and metadata will be deleted. This means customers deploying their own instance won't be storing data that has no use.
```

Reviewer 3: Something like this? We can also delete if we don't want to include – this all just gets taken from a script of the changelog updates.

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/32094
    category: Code Insights

>   - description: 'Code Insights critical telemetry total count now only includes insights that are not frozen (limited by trial mode restrictions).'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - description: 'Code Insights critical telemetry total count now only includes insights that are not frozen (i.e., limited by trial mode restrictions).'
```

Reviewer 4: @Joelkw - what does this mean for customers - what is the benefit?

Reviewer 3: @abschu there's not benefit for customers, this got picked up in the release changelog script and I recommend we cut this out of the highlights section. The benefit to us is we can accurately check that our licensing restrictions are working. (The "benefit" to customers is this prevents longer term effects like risking too many gating features or gating bugs, and we can be a bit laxer with access controls technically.)

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/32529
    category: Code Insights

>   - description: 'Notebooks from private enterprise instances can now be embedded in external sites by enabling the `enable-embed-route` feature flag.'

Author: ```suggestion
  - description: 'Notebooks from private enterprise instances can now be embedded in external sites by enabling the `enable-embed-route` feature flag. This allows you to embed Notebooks within existing technical documentation to see your documentation and code side-by-side.'
```

    url: https://docs.sourcegraph.com/notebooks/notebook-embedding
    category: Notebooks

>   - description: LSIF upload pages now include a section listing the reasons and retention policies resulting in an upload being retained and not expired.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - description: LSIF upload pages now include a section listing the reasons and related retention policies resulting in an upload being retained and not expired.
```

    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/30864
    category: Code Intelligence
  - description: 'Code monitoring now has a Logs tab enabled as a [Beta feature](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/admin/beta_and_experimental_features). This lets you see recent runs of your code monitors and determine if any notifications were sent or if there were any errors during the run.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/32292
    category: Admin
  - description: 'Searching for the pattern `//` with regular expression search is now interpreted literally and will search for `//`. Previously, the `//` pattern was interpreted as our regular expression syntax `/<regexp>/` which would in turn be intrpreted as the empty string. Since searching for an empty string offers little practical utility, we now instead interpret `//` to search for its literal meaning in regular expression search.'
    url: https://github.com/sourcegraph/sourcegraph/pull/31520
    category: Search
---

Sourcegraph 3.38 is now available! For this release, we introduced:

## Code Insights is generally available

> [Code Insights](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights) became generally available on March 10th. Code Insights reveals high-level information about your codebase, based on both how your code changes over time and its current state. You can learn more about why we built Code Insights in [the announcement from our CEO](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/announcing-code-insights/).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Code Insights](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_insights) transforms any search query into customizable, visual dashboards in seconds. Code Insights surfaces high-level information about your codebase, based on both how your code changes over time and its current state. You can learn more about why we built Code Insights in [the announcement from our CEO](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/announcing-code-insights/).
```

@Joelkw - I removed the date and added an additional sentence to introduce Code Insights. I also changed "reveals" to "surfaces." "Reveals" has connotations of sharing secretive information and we don't want to imply Code Insights makes secret information available.

Reviewer 3: Thanks @abschu ! Makes sense, I was just copying this from the copy that folks put together for the last post (if you think this is extra important, we may want to change it there too): https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/release/3.37/

> Any Sourcegraph instance can create up to two code insights, even without a trial or license.

Reviewer 3: It says this in the product, so I leave that up to you! If you think it's helpful and not redundant, feel free to add. 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11967660/159065578-0280fe3a-8519-4c1c-80ae-9ef669627d91.png)

<div class="container my-4 video-embed embed-responsive embed-responsive-16by9">
  <iframe
    class="embed-responsive-item"
    src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/fMCUJQHfbUA?autoplay=0&amp;cc_load_policy=0&amp;start=0&amp;end=0&amp;loop=0&amp;controls=1&amp;modestbranding=1&amp;rel=0"
    allowfullscreen="true"
    allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
    frameborder="0"
    title="Sourcegraph Code Insights demo"
  ></iframe>
</div>

## Notebooks are improved with a host of new features

> Notebooks have several new features in 3.38 to help your team better understand your codebase.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notebooks have several new features in 3.38 to help your team better understand your codebase:
```

- You can now copy any existing Notebook to your own collection of Notebooks.
- We've created a new symbol block type. This block lets you find any symbol in a repository, and the block will display that symbol no matter where it moves within a file.
- Code Intelligence is now available in Notebook blocks, making Notebooks more intuitive to be used for onboarding and learning about your codebase.

> - Embedding Notebooks is here. You can easily embed Notebooks from any Sourcegraph instance by embedding an iFrame anywhere, and setting `src` to `https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks/embed/<notebook_uuid/>`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Embedding Notebooks is here! You can now easily embed Notebooks from any Sourcegraph instance by embedding an iFrame anywhere, and setting `src` to `https://sourcegraph.com/notebooks/embed/<notebook_uuid/>`.
```

## Improved Code Intelligence performance for large repositories

We're introducing a new backend service, Rockskip, for search-based Code Intelligence, the symbol sidebar, and symbol search. Rockskip was architected with monorepos in mind, and it can index new commits much faster than the existing SQLite backend.

From 3.38 onwards, Rockskip can be turned on for specific repositories and it will make the symbol sidebar and search-based code intelligence much faster. If you're interested in turning this on for your repos, read more in the [docs](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_intelligence/explanations/rockskip) or [contact us](mailto:support@sourcegraph.com).

<img class="blog-image" title="Rockskip performance improvement" alt="Comparative chart showing impact of incremental indexing" src="https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/docs/images/code-intelligence/rockskip-chart.png">

## Search your project dependencies for better incident resolution

> [Dependencies search](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/dependencies_search) is a new beta feature that lets you search through the dependency packages of your repositories, and it is available for all users on 3.38. Looking into the code of your dependencies is particularly useful when you're trying to resolve incidents as fast as possible.

Reviewer 2: Don't really need to re-explain that this update relates to 3.38.

```suggestion
[Dependencies search](https://docs.sourcegraph.com/code_search/how-to/dependencies_search) is a new beta feature that lets you search through the dependency packages of your repositories. Looking into the code of your dependencies is particularly useful when you're trying to resolve incidents as fast as possible.
```

Dependencies search currently supports NPM, and more dependency repositories are coming soon.

> 

Reviewer 5: I think we should have an entry for lsif-typescript, since multiple customers have run into issues with lsif-node either (a) crashing on large repos (b) being very slow or (c) not supporting cross-repo navigation.

```suggestion

## Faster indexing for JavaScript and TypeScript

[lsif-typescript](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-typescript/) is a new indexer for JavaScript and TypeScript (in beta) that is about 5x-10x faster than the old indexer [lsif-node](https://github.com/sourcegraph/lsif-node). lsif-typescript also includes support for cross-repository references and Yarn workspaces, and is less prone to out-of-memory and stack overflow issues. Auto-indexing now defaults to using lsif-typescript.

```

cc @olafurpg

Reviewer 6: I think it’s better to wait with announcing lsif-typescript until next month’s release
